hi uh today i'm going to be talking
about why exactly i have a second
brain if you're new here welcome my name
is elizabeth i'm a medical student and
an artist living
in london and i am a consumer of a lot
of information
through my university degree books that
i try to read on the side
and other courses that i like to do i
feel
as though i am in a constant state of
forgetting things
this was all until i created my second
brain
this is a term which i love coined by
thiago forte it's basically a glorified
information management slash note-taking
system honestly it is one of the best
things i have done in my life
i wish i could give this speech to
myself
five years ago it would absolutely have
changed things for me
completely my second brain is basically
a highly organized collection
of everything that i consume which is
all explained
categorized and connected with one
another in this way
i have a much more intelligent easily
accessible
and organized version of myself which i
can access
whenever i feel the need to work on
something or
even just for fun in this video i will
explain six reasons why
i believe that being very intentional
with your note-taking and information
management is
absolutely critical so let's get
straight into it the first reason
is investing in your future memory i am
a firm believer that
it is my own personal responsibility to
set my future
self up for as much success happiness
and joy as possible so i am very often
working with my future self in mind i
recognize that my future self
may have projects and may also be quite
lazy and procrastinating when she has to
do them
so i prepare a system with a huge
backlog for her
so that she is never starting from a
blank page but
always has highly processed information
the next reason
is information overload in building a
second brain
thiago puts up a slide where he showed
that the average person
consumes the equivalent of 174
newspapers of information a day and this
is the average person if you're watching
this video
which means you're probably similar to
me we're consuming maybe double or
triple this amount and therefore this is
what makes me think that maybe
i don't have a very bad memory but it's
just impossible
for me to keep up with everything that
is being thrown at me
all the time in a similar way that i
will summarize my lectures into one or
two lines
to be able to remember at the very least
just that
i will do the same thing with whole
books or
chapters of a book or even a sentence in
a book that i find is very very
important and i will add this
to my notes the next reason is the view
that you are the average of the five
projects that you are spending the most
of your time on
i love this because when i was younger
my parents would always tell me that
i was the average of the five people
that i spent the most of my time with
even though
as adults we can be quite intentional to
some extent with the people that we
surround ourselves
i don't think that we can exactly do the
same thing when it comes to information
for example even googling things will
show up different results for different
people
we are really at the mercy of algorithms
on youtube for example or
on instagram feed i have very little
control as to what information i am
being exposed to
however when it comes to the things that
i am spending hours or even
weeks or days considering and processing
in my
second brain these are things that i can
choose by myself and be very
intentional about i try to make these
things are highly intellectually
stimulating or very
inspiring or things that i am passionate
about and especially
things that i hope one day will also be
helpful to other people and that i can
share and improve
more people's lives with so you can
choose whatever these values are for you
and be a lot more intentional with them
in your second brain than you are
in just consuming information from
everywhere the next reason is that
sometimes i will be exposed to things
which in the moment
i don't really feel like paying
attention to but which i know will be
very important in the future
or the opposite of this for example i've
always been very passionate about art
but because i thought that i couldn't
see how it would fit into my life as a
doctor i kind of ignored
taking notes on art for a very large
part of my life
which now i regret so much because i
finally have been given a platform
where i can talk about things that i was
passionate in and if only i had
more notes on art that process would
have been a lot easier so i would say
you never really know where your life
goes and if you're very passionate about
something
chances are consciously or
subconsciously you are creating
situations wherein
in the future you will be able to do
that thing this has definitely been the
case for me so i feel as though we
should not trust our energy levels and
situation
right now but rather we should trust our
passions if something makes me really
excited
i will make note of it regardless of
what topic it is on because chances are
i will be needing it in the future
the next idea is that brains are for
making connections
and not storing information this is
something that has been
revolutionary for me i feel as though
when i started medicine
i was paying so much attention to
focusing on very very small details
i feel as though i did not have a strong
command of
the bigger picture and i think this
bigger picture thinking
is much more valuable as humans i don't
think we're very good at
memorizing large amounts of information
and because i have a second brain where
all those details are stored in
i don't really need to care that much
because i know that they exist and i
know where to find them
so my brain is emptied and free to
rather come up with creative things
and to make connections between them and
to look them up
when i need those things to be done my
last point and perhaps the most
important one
is that building a second brain is a
system
that gets better the more you fail
let me explain this a bit i always used
to be
a huge fan of creating very detailed
systems about things
and recently i have started accounting
for
those systems failing because that is
absolutely
guaranteed i know for sure that there
will be times where i am lazy
and tired and procrastinating and not
sticking to my schedules
so now my schedules are optimized
for my lazy version rather than my
productive version of myself in the end
of the day i think
enjoying what you do is the most
important thing so honestly i want to
feel as good
when i am lounging about doing nothing
and avoiding my work
as when i am actually doing the work
this is how i create systems in my life
i will definitely
go into a lot more detail about this in
explaining how my second brain works
but basically if i capture something
before i
block it into its categories the longer
i leave it as a draft
be less a day a week six months the
longer my brain will have to
subconsciously simmer on that concept
and i find that when i come back to
categorizing my drafts for months and
months ago i've created a lot more
novel connections in my notes rather
than the ones that i thought initially i
would put them in on the very first day
so this is the system that gets better
the lazier you are
which for me is absolutely brilliant
these are my reasons
why as a professional in the modern
world because i am consuming so much
information
i need to be equally or if not more
careful intentional and organized about
what i do
with everything that i consume and i
have found that building a second brain
has been honestly the most life-changing
satisfying
and brilliant things that i've ever done
in regards to information processing in
my life
i'm honestly very very excited to share
more details around this
my system is in notion but i'm sure that
it can be done
on many different platforms if you made
it so far that's great
you are definitely my type of person
thank you so much for spending this time
with me i hope you have a wonderful rest
of your day
be kind yourself and others and don't
believe everything you think thanks
bye
[Music]